cabin or structure - if you venture so far into the woods, there  could be a cabin in the woods in the sasquatch zone.  in the building there could be something in it that is a random item.



items - dig wormhole tunnel.
items - garbage.  chance to find small items.  may find raccoons.
items - different collars, do different things.  
items - you could find items that would impart knowledge to your dog.
items - bones



bones - as a resource
fresh bone - 
yellow bone - 
green bone - 
fossil - used for character upgrade.  should differ from the bones in a meaningful way; maybe they are used for item upgrades?


digging - dig to find items; dig to make tunnels; dig holes for bone storage.

character stats - progression

movement - get better at moving
diggin - get faster at digging. depth for security? 
swimming -
barking - to scare, does damage, d20.  bark fail !yip!; bark succeed !woof!
scent -
hearing - better at identifying objects by sound.  false-positives.   sense of location, visual representation.  UI, player incentivization to investigate sounds.
energy? -
peeing - part of communication and general information gathering.
jumping - fences, well defined obstacles.
biting - 
carrion - ability to eat garbage




survival:
food and drink
rotten food may or may not hurt the player (RND)



locations:
1. starting town
2. wooded area
3. farmland
4. city
5. harbor town
6. hillbilly town
7. K9 mountain - someone on the mountain
8. antarctica
9. atlantis
10. halloween town
11. three bears
12. underground?
13. tree town

actual places aren't cemented.  their locations are modular.




NPCS:
sasquatch - enemy
bigfoot - enemy
dogman - guardian angel
mothman - warns about things that are going to happen.  phophetic.  Darkside.  he is an omen.
play on aquaman
stray dogs - enemy / friend
fox
raccoon
cats - indifferent.  may help or hurt.  May give information that could help or hurt.  Cat mafia had dog fights??
squirrel
owl - know things that are going on in the forest.  Wise.  Will only help for favor.  special food.
bear
wolf - 
coyote
snek - found in bushes and tall grasses
cars - enemy FTMP
Vacuum roaming wilderness - vague brave little toaster reference.   makes crop circles.  aliens?  could be part of space win?
necromancer - carry the remnants of old player corpse to necromancer.  Necromancer acts as a catalyst for the benefits.  Chance to failure.  (x5 benefit?) 20% chance of succeed.  75% zombie.  5% chance pure evil.






endings
1. you die
2. viva la revolution
3. outer space
4. defeat bigfoot (true bigfoot)
5. reach the north pole
6. 'the good death'


death: have some representation in following playthroughs of previous playthroughs.
stumble on the remnants of one of the previous corpses from an earlier playthrough.  provides some benefit or choice.  



dogs are very schedule oriented.  perhaps other dogs schedules can be manipulated via bork/pee.





- character: movement, digging, swimming
- design opening town




